Update migration guide. (#18523)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-java: sdk/eventhubs/azure-messaging-eventhubs/migration-guide.md

# Guide for migrating to `azure-messaging-eventhubs` from `azure-eventhubs` and `azure-eventhubs-eph`

> This guide assists in the migration to `azure-messaging-eventhubs` from `azure-eventhubs` and

Reviewer: Based on template https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk/blob/f4dd2025c87f6f4ce615ae4687d2ba527381137e/docs/policies/migration-guide-template.md

`This guide assists` -> `This guide is intended to assist`

Author: There are multiple libraries so I felt it was grammatically correct.

Familiarity with `azure-eventhubs` and `azure-eventhubs-eph` package is assumed. For those new to the Event Hubs client
library for Java, please refer to the [README.md][README] rather than this guide.

## Table of contents

- [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Migration benefits](#migration-benefits)
    - [Cross Service SDK improvements](#cross-service-sdk-improvements)
- [Important changes](#important-changes)
    - [Package names and namespaces](#package-names-and-namespaces)
    - [Client hierarchy and constructors](#client-hierarchy-and-constructors)
        - [Create an Event Hub producer](#create-an-event-hub-producer)
    - [Send events to a specific Event Hub partition](#send-events-to-a-specific-event-hub-partition)
    - [Send events using automatic routing](#send-events-using-automatic-routing)
    - [Receive events from a single partition](#receive-events-from-a-single-partition)
    - [Receiving events from all partitions](#receiving-events-from-all-partitions)
        - [V3 Checkpoints](#v3-checkpoints)
- [Additional samples](#additional-samples)

## Migration benefits

> A natural question to ask when considering whether or not to adopt a new version or library is the benefits of doing so. As Azure has matured and been embraced by a more diverse group of developers, we have been focused on learning the patterns and practices to best support developer productivity and to understand the gaps that the Java

Reviewer: `is the benefits of doing so` - > `is what the benefits of doing so`

Author: Eh, Grammarly checked this paragraph.

To improve the development experience across Azure services, a set of uniform [design guidelines][Guidelines] was created for all languages to drive a
consistent experience with established API patterns for all services. A set of [Java design guidelines][GuidelinesJava] was introduced to ensure that Java clients have a natural and idiomatic feel with respect to the Java ecosystem. Further details are available in the guidelines
for those interested.

### Cross Service SDK improvements

The modern Event Hubs client library also provides the ability to share in some of the cross-service improvements made to the Azure development experience, such as

- Using the new azure-identity library to share a single authentication approach between clients.
- A unified logging and diagnostics pipeline offering a common view of the activities across each of the client libraries.
- A unified asynchronous programming model using [Project Reactor][project-reactor].

> 

Reviewer: If this apply, you may want to add this
`- Use of builders to build the client.`

## Important changes

### Package names and namespaces

Group ids, artifact ids, and package names for the modern Azure client libraries for Java have changed. Each will have the group id `com.azure`, an artifact id following the pattern `azure-[area]-[service]`, and the root package name `com.azure.[area].[Service]`. The legacy clients have a group id `com.microsoft.azure` and their package names followed the pattern `com.microsoft.azure.[service]`. This provides a quick and accessible means to help understand, at a glance, whether you are using modern or legacy clients.

In Event Hubs, the modern client libraries have packages and namespaces that begin with `com.azure.messaging.eventhubs` and were released starting with version 5. The legacy client libraries have package names beginning with `com.microsoft.azure.eventhubs` and a version of 3.x.x or below.

### Client hierarchy and constructors

> In the interest of simplifying the API surface, we've made three clients, each with an asynchronous and synchronous variant. One client is for producing events, [EventHubProducerAsyncClient][EventHubProducerAsyncClient], while two are intended for reading events. [EventProcessorClient][EventProcessorClient] is the production-level consumer and [EventHubConsumerAsyncClient][EventProcessorClient] for exploration and

Reviewer 2: > we've made three clients, each with an asynchronous and synchronous variant

I thought EventProcessorClient  does not have the two variations

> EventProcessorClient is the production-level consumer

This would make the reader feel that the other client is not meant to be used in production. That can be misleading...

How about this:

> EventProcessorClient is what you would typically use to read events from all partitions with an optional, but recommended checkpointing feature. EventHubConsumerAsyncClient is what you would use for lower-level control of EventData consumption from a single partition.

lower-level control of [EventData][EventData] consumption.

> Creation of producers or consumers is done through either [EventHubClientBuilder][EventHubClientBuilder] or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Creation of producer and consumer clients is done through the [EventHubClientBuilder][EventHubClientBuilder] while the EventProcessorClient is created through the [EventProcessorClientBuilder[EventProcessorClientBuilder].
```

[EventProcessorClientBuilder][EventProcessorClientBuilder]. Asynchronous clients are created by invoking
`builder.build*AsyncClient()`. Synchronous clients are created by invoking `builder.build*Client()`.

#### Create an Event Hub producer

> Event Hub asynchronous and asynchronous producers in v3 were created using static methods in `EventHubClient`. In v5, they are created with [EventHubClientBuilder][EventHubClientBuilder]. Samples below demonstrate how to create an Event Hub producer, but the same steps can be used for the consumer.

Reviewer 2: asynchronous and asynchronous ?

In v3:

```java
public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
    ScheduledExecutorService scheduler = Executors.newScheduledThreadPool(4);
    CompletableFuture<EventHubClient> clientFuture =
        EventHubClient.createFromConnectionString("connection-string-for-an-event-hub",
        scheduler);

    CompletableFuture<Void> workFuture = clientFuture
    .thenComposeAsync(client -> {
        // Do things with the client.
        // Dispose of client.
        return client.close();
    });

    workFuture.get();
    scheduler.shutdown();
  }
```

In v5:

```java
public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
    EventHubProducerAsyncClient client = new EventHubClientBuilder()
        .connectionString("connection-string-for-an-event-hub")
        .buildAsyncProducerClient();

    // Do things with the client.
    // Dispose of client.
    client.close();
  }
```

> ### Send events to a specific Event Hub partition

Reviewer 2: Can we consider merging the two sections for specific partition and automatic routing? Most of the information is similar and we can use the same code snippet block to show both scenarios. This also gives us the opportunity to say that in both cases in v5, it is the same client and method they would use, just an additional option is required for sending to specific partition while in v2 you had to use different classes.

In this combined section, I would showcase the simple send in v5 that takes an array of events.

We can have a separate section that focuses on the batching feature.

I believe this structure would do a easier job of "selling" the benefits of v5

- A unified asynchronous programming model using [Project Reactor][project-reactor].
- A unified method of creating clients via client builders to interact with Azure services.

## Important changes

### Package names and namespaces

Group ids, artifact ids, and package names for the modern Azure client libraries for Java have changed. They follow the [Java SDK naming guidelines][GuidelinesJavaDesign]. Each will have the group id `com.azure`, an artifact id following the pattern `azure-[area]-[service]`, and the root package name `com.azure.[area].[Service]`. The legacy clients have a group id `com.microsoft.azure` and their package names followed the pattern `com.microsoft. Azure.[service]`. This provides a quick and accessible means to help understand, at a glance, whether you are using modern or legacy clients.

In Event Hubs, the modern client libraries have packages and namespaces that begin with `com.azure.messaging.eventhubs` and were released starting with version 5. The legacy client libraries have package names starting with `com.microsoft.azure.eventhubs` and a version of 3.x.x or below.

### Client hierarchy and constructors

> In the interest of simplifying the API surface, we've made three clients. One client is for producing events, [EventHubProducerAsyncClient][EventHubProducerAsyncClient] has async operations and [EventHubProducerClient][EventHubProducerClient] is the sync version. The other two clients are intended for reading events. [EventProcessorClient][EventProcessorClient] is what you would typically use to read events from all partitions with an optional, but recommended checkpointing feature. [EventHubConsumerAsyncClient][EventHubConsumerAsyncClient] is what you would use for lower-level control of [EventData][EventData] consumption from a single partition.

Reviewer 2: Ok, this got more confusing for me :) I think the "three clients" and the mix of sync and async clients is messing me up. Can we try something like the below?

```suggestion
In the interest of simplifying the API surface, we've made separate clients for sending and receiving events:
- [EventHubProducerClient][EventHubProducerClient] is the sync client to send events. [EventHubProducerAsyncClient][EventHubProducerAsyncClient] is the corresponding async client.
- [EventProcessorClient][EventProcessorClient] is what you would typically use to read events from all partitions with an optional, but recommended checkpointing feature. 
- [EventHubConsumerClient][EventHubConsumerClient] is the sync client you would use for lower-level control of [EventData][EventData] consumption from a single partition. [EventHubConsumerAsyncClient][EventHubConsumerAsyncClient] is the corresponding async client.
```

Creation of producer and consumer clients is done through the [EventHubClientBuilder][EventHubClientBuilder] while the [EventProcessorClient][EventProcessorClient] is created through the [EventProcessorClientBuilder][EventProcessorClientBuilder].

#### Create an Event Hub producer

> Event Hub synchronous and asynchronous producers in v3 were created using static methods in `EventHubClient`. In v5, they are created with [EventHubClientBuilder][EventHubClientBuilder]. Samples below demonstrate how to create an Event Hub producer, but the same steps can be used for the consumer.

Reviewer 2: > Event Hub synchronous and asynchronous producers in v3 were created using static methods in `EventHubClient

I don't see any "producers" in v3. The send method is either directly on the client for automatic routing or we can create "partition senders" to send to particular partition. I also don't see sync/async variations in any classes in v3. So, how is the above statement accurate?

If we want to show how the constructing a EventHubProducerClient is different from constructing a EventHubClient, we can rename this section to `Instantiating clients` and talk about all 3 clients. See https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/master/sdk/servicebus/azure-messaging-servicebus/migration-guide.md#instantiating-clients for example

In v3:

```java
public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
    ScheduledExecutorService scheduler = Executors.newScheduledThreadPool(4);
    CompletableFuture<EventHubClient> clientFuture =
        EventHubClient.createFromConnectionString("connection-string-for-an-event-hub",
        scheduler);

    CompletableFuture<Void> workFuture = clientFuture
    .thenComposeAsync(client -> {
        // Do things with the client.
        // Dispose of client.
        return client.close();
    });

    workFuture.get();
    scheduler.shutdown();
  }
```

In v5:

```java
public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
    // This builds an async client. The sync version can be created by
    // calling buildProducerClient() to create an EventHubProducerClient.
    EventHubProducerAsyncClient client = new EventHubClientBuilder()
        .connectionString("connection-string-for-an-event-hub")
        .buildAsyncProducerClient();

    // Do things with the client.
    // Dispose of client.
    client.close();
  }
```

### Send events to an Event Hub

> In v3, events could be published to a single partition using `PartitionSender` or automatically routed to an available partition via `EventHubClient`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In v3, events could be published to a specific partition using the `send` or `sendSync` methods on the `PartitionSender` or automatically routed to an available partition via similar methods on the `EventHubClient`. You could either send a single event, a list of events or an event batch.
```

> In v5, the **same client** can create an [EventDataBatchs][EventDataBatch] that routes to a specific partition or use automatic routing. Events are published to a specific partition using [`CreateBatchOptions.setPartitionId()`][CreateBatchOptions]; otherwise, the batch is automatically routed.

Reviewer 2: Since in v3 there was only a single client ever using the "same client" does not drive home the point that we use the same class, but different overloads. How about the below?

```suggestion
In v5, the option to send single events is dropped to encourage sending events in batches for better throughput. 
You can send a list of events or create and send an event batch as before. Instead of using different classes, sending to a specific partition and making use of the automatic routing is done using overloads of the same methods. For example:
- Passing a list of events to the `send` method with no options makes use of automatic routing. If `partitionId` is passed in the options to this method, the events are sent to the given partition
- Creating a batch of events using the `createBatch` method without setting the `partitionId` in the options makes use of automatic routing. If `partitionId` is passed in the options to this method, the events are sent to the given partition
```

> Additionally, we consolidate send into an efficient `send(EventDataBatch)` method on the producer client. Batching merges information from multiple events into a single sent message, reducing the amount of network communication needed vs sending events one at a time.

Reviewer 2: The batching happens even when list of events is passed instead of EventDataBatch. Assuming we go with my previous edit, we can change this as 

```suggestion
Batching merges information from multiple events into a single sent message, reducing the amount of network communication needed vs sending events one at a time.
```

The code below assumes all events fit into a single batch. For a more complete example, see sample: [Publishing events to specific partition][PublishEventsToSpecificPartition].

So in v3:

```java
List<EventData> events = Arrays.asList(EventData.create("foo".getBytes()));

> ScheduledExecutorService scheduler = Executors.newScheduledThreadPool(4);

Reviewer 2: There is a mix of sync and async methods in these code snippets. Can we stick to just sync going by the assumption that most Java users would be using sync?

Author: I opted to use only async clients for my snippets because the migration guides are assuming these are in production. sync clients are what we suggest for getting started.

In Event Hubs, the modern client libraries have packages and namespaces that begin with `com.azure.messaging.eventhubs` and were released starting with version 5. The legacy client libraries have package names starting with `com.microsoft.azure.eventhubs` and a version of 3.x.x or below.

### Client hierarchy

In the interest of simplifying the API surface, we've made separate clients for sending and receiving events:
- [EventHubProducerClient][EventHubProducerClient] is the sync client to send events. [EventHubProducerAsyncClient][EventHubProducerAsyncClient] is the corresponding async client.
- [EventProcessorClient][EventProcessorClient] is what you would typically use to read events from all partitions with an optional, but recommended checkpointing feature.

> - [EventHubConsumerClient][EventHubConsumerClient] is the sync client you would use for lower-level control of [EventData][EventData] consumption from a single partition. [EventHubConsumerAsyncClient][EventHubConsumerAsyncClient] is the corresponding async client.

Reviewer 2: This link is not rendering properly

Author: Yes. The commit is a "WIP" because I was switching machines.

#### Instantiating clients

> In v3, the `EventHubClient` was instantiated via static overloads. The client contained both sync and async methods. A `PartitionReceiver` or `PartitionSender` could be created from this client. `EventHubClient

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In v3, the `EventHubClient` was instantiated via static overloads. The client contained both sync and async methods. A `PartitionReceiver` or `PartitionSender` could be created from this client.
```

    return producer.send(batch);
});

// The send operation is an async operation that does not execute unless it is subscribed to.
// We block here to turn this into a synchronous operation.
sendOperation.block();

// Dispose of any resources.
producer.close();
```

### Send events using automatic routing

In v3, events could be published to an Event Hub that allowed the service to automatically route events to an available partition.

In v5, this has been consolidated into a more efficient `send(EventDataBatch)` method. Batching merges information from
multiple events into a single sent message, reducing the amount of network communication needed vs sending events one at
a time. Automatic routing occurs when an [EventDataBatch][EventDataBatch] is created using `createBatch()`.

So in v3:

```java
ScheduledExecutorService scheduler = Executors.newScheduledThreadPool(4);
EventHubClient client = EventHubClient.createFromConnectionStringSync(
    "connection-string-for-an-event-hub", scheduler);

EventDataBatch batch = client.createBatch();

> // Assuming all events fit into a single batch. This returns false if it does not.

Author: I have a link in my paragraph:
```
The code below assumes all events fit into a single batch. For a more complete example, see sample: [Publishing events to specific partition][PublishEventsToSpecificPartition].
```

    System.out.println("Contents: " + new String(event.getBody(), StandardCharsets.UTF_8));
}
```

### Receive events from a single partition

> In v3, events were received by creating a `PartitionReceiver` and invoking `receive(int)` multiple times to receive

Reviewer 2: Well.... there was also the `setreceivehandler()` which was a fire and forget and didnt need to be invoked multiple times....

events up to a certain number.

> In v5, [project Reactor][project-reactor] is used, so events can be streamed as they come in without having to use a

Reviewer 2: We cannot receive events from single partition in EventHubConsumerClient?

Author: We can and since we are examining production scenario migrations, I opted to use something that was the same, which we would expect in production.

// Keep fetching events
// When you are finished, dispose of the subscription.
subscription.dispose();

// Dispose of any resources.
consumer.close();
```

> ### Receiving events from all partitions

Reviewer 3: This section should be moved above "Receiving events from single partition" as this is the recommended approach and customers most likely would be using EPH.

In v3, `EventProcessorHost` allowed you to balance the load between multiple instances of your program and checkpoint events when receiving. Developers would have to create and register a concrete implementation of `IEventProcessor` to begin consuming events.

> In v5, [EventProcessorClient][EventProcessorClient] allows you to do the same and includes a plugin model, so other durable stores can be used if desired. The development model is made simpler by registering functions that would be invoked for each event. To use Azure Storage Blobs for checkpointing, include

Reviewer 3: Should we call out which interface to implement to use other durable stores?

    System.out.println("Contents: " + new String(event.getBody(), StandardCharsets.UTF_8));
}
```

> #### V3 Checkpoints

Reviewer 3: Title -> "Checkpoints migration"

## Additional samples

More examples can be found at:

- [Event Hubs samples][README-Samples]
- [Event Hubs Azure Storage checkpoint store samples][README-Samples-Blobs]

<!-- Links -->
[azure-messaging-eventhubs-checkpointstore-blob]: https://search.maven.org/artifact/com.azure/azure-messaging-eventhubs-checkpointstore-blob

> [CreateBatchOptions]: https://azuresdkdocs.blob.core.windows.net/$web/java/azure-messaging-eventhubs/5.3.1/com/azure/messaging/eventhubs/models/CreateBatchOptions.html

Reviewer 3: Is there a way to link this to the "latest" version instead of hardcoding 5.3.1?

Author: At the moment it is on the doc team's backlog
